Tura has formally submitted a request to
join South Africa's genocide case
against Israel that'll make turkia the
seventh country to file a request to
intervene several other countries have
also announced their intention to join
let's get more honest with Cam Koli
she's in Istanbul s tell us about the
significance of turkey joining this case
and what exactly it's going to be
doing well uh yes Laur out tury just uh
was was scheduled to submit uh this file
this case uh to the ha uh international
criminal uh International court of
justice at uh 4:30 Turkish local time
which was like a couple of minutes ago
and Turkish ambassador to the h and a
Turkish delegation from the parliament
were in front of the icj building uh
before the submission and they also had
a press brief uh why is it important
that turkey uh is trying to take part in
this court procedure this genocide case
that South Africa filed against Israel
uh this is an intern this has become an
international issue the war in Gaza the
genocide that has been ongoing in Gaza
conducted by the Israeli after South
Africa uh opened this case against
Israel some other six other countries
wanted to intervene in the case to
become a part in the case based on the
genocide convention uh under the uh
Authority Under the rules of the United
Nations and the countries that are uh
that are trying to be a part of this
case are Colombia Nicaragua uh Spain
Libya Palestine Mexico and turkey today
submits its official request to join
this uh uh join this file as a party and
according to the delegation uh that is
in the he right now
uh the Turkish delegation says that they
have a strong
file when you have more parties
participating in this uh in these kinds
of cases the case gets stronger against
uh the offender this is what is expected
but of course I have to remind that the
official request made by the other six
countries that I mentioned and uh the
the the official request by turkey needs
to be approved by the international
court of justice which we don't have uh
any approv yet the the the legal process
is underway H but the experts say that
the results the interpretation of the
icj on this case uh that uh accuses
Israel of genocide will be binding for
parties and it will be very important uh
for International Community because uh
the reason why people have been reacting
why Turkish authorities have been
reacting uh so uh highly against uh
what's going on in Gaza was The Silence
of the International Community despite
all these protests held in the Western
countries in the United States we don't
see anything despite the UN Security
Council decisions to stop Israel okay s
kogu joining us there from istan many
thanks
inam make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer